Now that was the snack bar, the other dialog I wanted to add is here in the cart when we dismiss an
item, right now
once we swipe, it's simply gone,
we don't get asked whether we're sure if we want to remove that. Now of course that might be the approach
you want to follow,
maybe you don't want to ask a user because you're pretty confident that if someone swipes here which
of course also takes some effort, he really is ure that this should be removed and that's totally fine
but also for this tutorial sake, I of course want to show you how you could show a dialog here.
It's our cart item,
the cart_item.dart file which is dismissable here and now the goal would be to step in here on the
dismissable widget and prevent it from being dismissed
if the user doesn't confirm a dialog.
Now for that on dismissable, we can add a confirm dismiss argument which takes a function and of course
I'm now also working with a lot of anonymous functions,
you can always have named functions at which you simply point
and here in this anonymous function, we get, as we can see here, the dismiss direction which was chosen
and we have to return a future. You remember that's that object which eventually will return a result
which eventually returns a boolean result, boolean because it eventually has to tell Flutter whether
we want to dismiss or not, so true or false.
So we get the direction here and then in here,
as I said, we have to return a future.
We can simply do that by returning future and then value to immediately return a value like true which
is wrapped into a future and that fulfills this condition of having to return a future here
but that's of course not the idea.
Well let's start with the dialog and then worry about the future, so we can show a dialog simply
with the help of show dialog.
Now unlike the snack bar, for this we need no scaffold because this is not attached to a page
so to say, a dialog can be shown anywhere, so it's just show dialog here and show dialog now requires
a context argument because you still need to give it a context so that it knows to which widget to
attach itself
so to say. So here we have to pass in context to make sure that you have one available in the place
where you call show dialog,
so context here on the right side of the colon refers to the context we're getting here in the build
method and
we have to pass this with the context argument to show dialog.
Now besides the context, show dialog then also typically takes a builder and that builder here gives
you its own context as all the builders do, in Flutter typically, they give you their own context for
the widget they're about to build
and what do you return here typically should be a dialog widget.
Now if you enter dialog here, you see you have various dialogs, you have a base class which you
typically don't use but then you have an about dialog and most importantly, an alert dialog which
is the dialog you'll probably use most often. The alert
dialog is able to take a title and title here is a widget, typically of course a text widget
but as so often, it could also be a row with an icon and a text next to each other for example
and here, I'll just say are you sure as the title for this dialog
and besides the title, you then typically
also have a content and a content also is a widget here and here, I'll just have more text,
do you want to remove the item from the cart,
something meaningful which informs the user about what you want from him.
Well and after the content, there are other things you can configure, like the background color, the
padding around the content, the drop shadow and so on, so feel free to play around with all of that but
I want to add some actions here,
basically two actions and actions typically here are flat buttons as you also learned in the tooltip and
the first flat button will have a child where I say in my text widget no and then in onPressed, we should
do something that makes sure that we don't continue here with dismissing this item and the other flat
button here
has child text of
yes
where are we of course should do something that does go ahead with dismissing the item. So that's the
dialog set up now
but remember that in here, in confirmDismiss, this function actually has to return a future and not
just call show dialog.
Now show dialog actually does return a future though,
that's the good thing
and this future will be called whenever the dialog is closed. So actually, we can return the result
of show dialog here because again, show dialog returns a future, so we return a future now but it should
be a future that in the end yields true or false
and that's the missing piece but here in onPressed, we can control what the future resolves to by calling
and that's also something the tooltip tells us, by calling navigator pop. So the future resolves to a value
that was passed navigator pop.
So here in onPressed, we just have to call navigator of context
or actually here,
we can use the ctx, the context
the builder gives us, pop. This will close the dialog and now here, we can also forward a value, that's
optional
but here we want to do that because we want to yield a value with our future in the end. If the user chose
no, we don't want to dismiss, so we don't want to confirm the dismissal, so we want to return false
here. In the yes button of course, the opposite is the case, here of ctx,
we want to pop with a value of true because here, we want to go ahead and dismiss this.
And now with that if we save that, if you add an item to the cart and you now swipe here, you see it doesn't
get dismissed entirely instead I get asked here and if I choose no, it comes back and it's not dismissed
because of that change and because of popping with false.
If I however answer with yes, it goes ahead and clears that and it's really gone,
the total updated and it's gone here if we go back to the cart. So this shows you two things,
how to confirm the dismissal of the dismissable widget and how to show dialogs
and of course, you can show dialogs in other situations too, doesn't have to be to confirm a dismissal,
can be in any scenario where you want to confirm something or warn the user
or simply show some extra information to the user. With show dialog,
that's really easy as you can tell.